Why on earth would anyone buy a 55-inch TV for $20,000
when they can get one for 250 bucks?
It doesn't even have features.
No high refresh rate, no variable refresh rate.
There's branding and buttons everywhere.
And these bezels look straight out of my grandma's basement.
It doesn't even have any goddamn HDMI ports or a remote control.
But what it does have is features and capabilities
that are coveted by creators.
And not this kind, no offense.
This kind.
One does not simply see Lord of the Rings or Star Wars
until they've watched it on a display like this one
from Flanders Scientific,
who happened to be in the neighborhood
and were nice enough to swing by with their latest and greatest
so we could take a gander.
It boasts near-perfect color accuracy,
tetrahedral interpolation, 12-bit 444 signaling,
zero bullsh** image processing nonsense,
meaning that for the first time in my life,
I will finally see content the way the colorist saw it,
the way the director saw it.
What content, you might ask?
Well, to start with, we're gonna be checking out
the remastered segue Trilogy to our sponsor.
Hetzner, if I know you,
you're looking for a company with GDPR-compliant,
high-performance cloud servers
that offer on-demand cloud computing platforms
and APIs on a metered pay-as-you-go basis.
Classic you.
Don't miss out and use code LTT24 at the link below
to get 20 euros off.
The XMP550 Mastering Monitor
is likely the most accurate display
I have ever laid my two eyes on.
It's QD OLED, so we've got incredible viewing angles
and color that pops.
It's rated for 2000 nits peak brightness in a 4% window,
and while 55 inches might seem small
by today's TV standards,
it's actually big for what it is,
with most of the predecessors to this product
being in the 30-inch range.
Now, I'm gonna tell you a lot more about it
with some help from the Labs team,
but first, I've gotta experience it.
Now, we didn't do a TV roundup for 2023,
so for comparison, we've got two outstanding TVs from 2022,
one with a first-generation QD OLED panel from Samsung
and the other with the competing WOLED panel from LG.
Now, neither of these is gonna do 2000 nits,
more like half of that,
but they still might hold their own okay
because that often-boasted-about number,
that's peak brightness in a tiny window.
Once we get to bigger window sizes,
the gap should narrow,
and in filmmaker mode,
hey, theoretically, these displays
are super color accurate too,
but maybe I just don't know what I'm missing.
To find out, I've asked Brandon from the Lab to join me,
and he's gonna be taking us on a little tour
of some content that might either tell us,
well, this Flanders thing is amazing,
or hey, don't bother, don't worry about it.
Which will be awkward with the Flanders guys there,
but what can I say?
Whoa, you guys are gonna notice
that the LG G2 looks wildly different
from the two QD OLED displays.
That is due to the different spectral power distribution
on the G2 and the way that cameras capture TV output.
Now, in some scenes, it's gonna be a subtle difference,
but in others, this difference is going to stand out a lot,
but I can assure you that in person,
the G2 was relatively accurate to our human eyes.
It was a lot more subtle.
Also, please note, there are some really dark scenes here
that our cameras didn't capture very well,
so for the best experience,
you're going to want to watch in HDR.
Man, the other displays almost look
like they have cheesecloth over them.
Is that right, or did we screw something up?
Their ABL's kicking in.
That makes sense.
Consumer displays have ABL, or auto brightness limiting,
which is to protect them
so that they're not issuing warranty replacements
every six flippin' months.
Also, because I guess they would have to comply
with energy standards that a professional display wouldn't.
So they're just dimmer.
For now. For now.
It should be noted that for a brief period of time,
ABL's not gonna be nearly as much of a factor.
We just unplugged and replugged these TVs,
and you can see, now they're a lot closer,
even if, you can tell already, shadow detail.
I actually find the green saturation
is a little bit better than the W OLED.
It's not much.
Even the trees themselves are popping a bit more here.
Yeah.
They kind of blend into the background there on that one.
But to get a better idea, we're gonna cut the lights,
and we're gonna have a look at some test footage.
We're gonna start off with this house scene here.
Right away, look at the Samsung compared to your reference.
It's not even close, dude.
It's purple.
Yeah.
I know that what HDR is supposed to do
is it's supposed to make things look more true to life.
But what blows me away
is that I feel like I'm looking at a dollhouse
with an actual light in an actual window
on the Flander Scientific.
Yeah.
I think it's just the consistency of the color.
It just makes things look way more realistic.
It's not white.
It's light.
Ah, this is gonna ruin everything for me.
And look at the, oh my God, I didn't even notice.
The Samsung doesn't have a fence.
Nope.
The burglars could get right into the backyard.
You know, LG is doing a much better job
at retaining detail in the shadow compared to Samsung.
I think the LG is still raising the blacks
a little bit though.
Do you see where the garage is?
Mm-hmm.
To the right of it, there's like some dark detail,
but it's pretty dark.
Yeah.
If you look at the LG, it's raised a bit, right?
Like even the sky behind it.
So they're retaining that detail in the shadow,
but they're cheating a little.
Yes.
Where Samsung's going the opposite way,
they're giving it like that punchier look,
but you're losing, you're clipping all your black detail.
No question.
I would take the Flanders.
Then I would take the LG actually.
And then the Samsung for this.
The Samsung is not handling skin tones
the way that I'd like.
Yeah.
I'll try to posit when it goes back to her face.
Particularly the Asian skin tone.
Yeah.
Samsung tends to oversaturate.
Even in its filmmaker mode,
I've noticed that things look a bit rosier,
more saturated on people.
Even the dirt.
Like look at the dirt compared to-
It's orange.
Yeah.
Dirt's not orange.
LG doesn't look too bad.
No, no.
To their credit, it's more accurate,
even if the capability is not quite as good.
Yeah.
Like look at his hair.
He's red.
Yeah, and his skin.
And back to what we said about realism, right?
True to life, what color is a late night street lamp?
Yellow.
It's yellow.
It's not orange.
That's what it's supposed to look like.
And that seat is a blue leather.
Not whatever that color is.
It's got pink in it.
Yeah.
I can't believe how bad this Samsung looks.
This is the TV I have at home and I'm shocked.
Well, right?
And guys, you gotta remember,
Brandon test displays for a living.
Like how long have you been doing it now?
Four, over four years.
Yeah.
And that's how easily, like even we're bamboozled.
There's no way that that was the director's intent.
Looking at this, we're supposed to be able to see
everything that's going on.
Here, look at that.
She's wearing a purple shirt.
She's wearing a black shirt with purple,
I don't know, something along here.
This doesn't look too bad.
No, none of this bothers me.
And that reminds me,
part of why I had a hard time differentiating there
was because I was kind of busy looking at the content.
And no matter which of these TVs you have,
that's what you're gonna be doing most of the time.
So these are still hair splitting differences
that we're picking at.
It's just fun if you're a giant nerd.
These strawberries look really good.
They look super red.
I could eat those.
Yes.
They look pretty washed out on the LG.
Yup.
They look okay on the Samsung, but it's still not as red.
It's not, no, it's not as accurate.
Oh, and look at the shadow detail on the reflection.
It's like all gone on the Samsung.
Oh yeah.
So on the LG, but you're desaturated.
But it's, yeah, it looks like a ghost
of what a strawberry is supposed to look like
in the reflection, the top looks all right.
But those don't look as delicious.
Those are more sour.
And those are super sweet.
As long as it's not a super saturated color,
the LG does okay.
And I believe the Mario movie,
the mastering display primaries are P3,
which all these displays should be able to do.
Now my understanding is the Mario movie
was mastered for a peak of 800 nits.
Is that correct?
According to the metadata.
So theoretically, any one of these displays
can reach the brightness that we need to see.
Even the Samsung, it's oversaturating
Bowser's eyes a little bit.
They're a bit too orange.
It looks nice.
Like my eyes like that,
but that's what it should look like.
So LG, pretty close.
Honestly, the LG is very color accurate.
I'm really glad we're looking at real content now though,
because looking at test patterns or the ASC footage
made the difference seem a lot differenter.
Looking at a real movie,
which is going to be mastered with home displays in mind
a little bit more, I guess.
I don't find the difference nearly as noticeable.
Can you pause it right here?
I can.
What a great still.
Mario's hat does look a bit oversaturated
or a bit like maybe pink or purplish compared to here.
The true version looks almost right in between
the almost too orangey Samsung
and the almost too, I don't know, blue purple.
Yeah, blue purplish.
That's going on on the LG.
I think especially with animated content,
you have less like memory colors to reference, right?
Like you don't have realistic skin tones
and all those kinds of things.
So I think it's just a lot easier to be fooled
in thinking this looks correct.
That's true.
And like back to that night scene where I was like,
oh yeah, no, I know what an ugly yellow street lamp
is supposed to look like.
Well, this rainbow burning fire could be anything.
He looks almost pallid and dead on the Flanders.
Which-
He's rosy on the Samsung.
Was clearly the intent.
They're not supposed to look life full.
Brown uniform, green uniform.
This is probably the starkest difference I've seen
between the right color and completely the wrong color.
That looks like it could have been made out of leather.
Also, you can tell that this is daylight lit
because on the Flanders,
there's a bit of a bluey cast to everything.
Whereas we're losing that with the oversaturation
of the greens on the other displays.
Here's what I want to know.
Maybe this is my first question for the Flanders folks.
Is the problem that it's more work
to just not do any bull processing?
Yeah. Fundamentally, I always tell people
it's more about what we don't do almost
rather than what we do.
Is that really hard to not do that?
The problem is most of the chips that I use
are off the shelf chips from companies like MediaTek.
So we don't do that.
We do everything on FPGAs instead.
That's why they cost so much.
So it's a cost savings thing.
Slash an unwillingness to build your own processor
from the ground up to not do any of this BS.
It's another dark scene with oranges.
Oh my gosh.
The Samsung is doing so bad.
Yeah.
And not that Brandon has a horse in this race or anything,
but that's his TV.
Incredible.
Okay.
Dang it.
I mean, even here, that's an orange fire.
Those are red fires.
Yeah.
Oh, that looks so very metallic.
According to HGTV test,
the scene coming up should be 2000 nits
coming off of Gandalf.
So the maximum capability of our Flanders
and well beyond the maximum capabilities
of our consumer TVs here.
Yes.
Although it is a bright scene, very high APL.
Not sure how much that's going to come into play here.
Ooh.
Pause it.
Everyone's handling this pretty well.
There's clipping going on the Samsung though.
I don't know if it's because of the color stuff,
but you can't make out nearly as much.
Losing the trees in the, whatever,
the light source that's behind Gandalf.
LG pretty good.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can barely make out the form of his body
through the robes on the Samsung.
And it's also just not as bright.
I think the Samsung is tone mapping a lot here.
I'm also losing the folds in Legolas' cloak.
Yeah, so these two are about the same.
They're both hitting around 1000 nits
off of this little beam.
The Samsung is down to about 700.
And I guess that's probably because of tone mapping.
One thing we didn't focus on last time around
is an undesirable behavior of the Flanders
if you were using it for consuming content.
And that is that if there is a signal
that is outside of its maximum brightness range,
rather than just tone mapping it down
and trying to smooth out the transition,
it'll just peak, which is to say
it will completely lose any detail
that was supposed to be there.
And you can really see it on the bird's left cheek
here on the right side of the frame here.
There's nothing left of the feather detail there.
Whereas, actually the LG doesn't do a very good job.
It's not doing great.
Samsung, though, retains some of the texture
that's supposed to be there.
Oh yeah, LG actually manages to peak
even worse than Flanders.
Yeah, LG does have dynamic tone mapping on right now,
but that is the default behavior in filmmaker mode.
Yeah, and it's just not working very well.
Huh.
Oh yeah, wow.
This one's really interesting.
Hey look, there's green there.
Yeah, first off, the colors are completely different.
Yeah.
But here, this is a great quantization
banding test pattern.
So just look at the Samsung.
You can clearly see that white circle
ends right there.
Yeah, and then another circle.
Yeah, and then look at the LG.
The LG is much worse.
You can really see, it's like looking at the rings
of Saturn around the outer perimeter.
Whereas the Flanders, I guess that's what a 5D LUT
or whatever the crap it is that they're using
is gonna do for you.
How do you guys describe the LUT?
A tetrahedral LUT interpolation.
It looks so smooth here.
It's falling apart.
It looks so yucky on the rest of them.
This is not a bit rate issue.
This is the ability of the processor to interpret
all the different little micro steps of color
that might exist.
And you can see the consumer displays
are falling flat on their faces.
There's more to this thing
than just a pretty face though.
Build quality is solid with an aluminum chassis
and a graphite heat sink.
And it operates fanless in spite of the fact
that 2000 nits, even in a small area,
can generate some serious heat.
And this is cool.
Check this out.
Part of why this display is so expensive
is because it can offer up information
that might not be relevant to you,
but is relevant to filmmakers,
like showing false color
or a live readout of luminance and waveforms
so you can make sure that what you're looking at
is as you intended.
And that's the reason why you or I, budget aside,
might not actually want to use this as a home display.
Also the lack of HDMI, et cetera, et cetera.
The XMP 550 is a tool for professionals
and it offers no post-processing whatsoever.
That includes, or rather doesn't include, tone mapping.
This TV, or more accurately, display,
shows the footage in its unprocessed form
with only a custom 3D LUT or a lookup table
to make sure the colors are displayed accurately.
And because of that, when we show content
that was mastered at a higher brightness value
rather than roll off pleasingly and retain detail,
it'll simply clip.
That's intended because a colorist
doesn't want to be fooled into thinking,
this is what a 4,000-nit scene looks like.
So it's kind of a safety mechanism
to ensure that they know,
hey, you've gone beyond the capabilities of this display
and you can do that,
but you're kind of grading blind at this point.
But wait, hold on a second.
Grading blind, isn't this thing the be-all and end-all?
All right, we're working on a tech quickie
that's gonna help further explain color spaces
and terms like chromaticity in the not too distant future.
But when it comes to HDR and Rec. 2020,
that's a volumetric color space
that can go all the way to 10,000 nits
beyond the capabilities of even this display.
I mean, QD OLED has gotten us close
in terms of color saturation,
but the brightness just isn't there yet.
Now, the primary competitor to the XMP550
is Sony's new BVM-HX3110,
a dual-layer LCD mastering monitor
that uses a technology similar to the Hisense U9DG
that we covered almost two years ago.
It can reach a whopping 4,000 nits,
but the color saturation is narrower.
To hit 100% of the entire volume,
you'd need basically pure color wavelengths
like frickin' lasers displaying your image,
and that's gonna be a while.
Also, despite the Sony unit offering extra brightness,
there are a few reasons why you might prefer
the Flanders Scientific Display.
First and foremost, they're really nice people
who are entirely non-threatening.
No, I'm kidding, but seriously,
the near-perfect viewing angles,
thanks to the Quantum Dot OLED panel,
mean that you can use a single display for both working
and showing references to your client or boss,
someone who's likely to be a big deal,
like a studio head or a creative director.
To illustrate why this matters,
we had an older dual-layer LCD mastering display at LTX,
and Brandon was constantly instructing people
to, no, no, you have to stand directly in front of it,
or it really doesn't look right.
Second, OLED's lightning-fast self-emissive pixels
give us zero rise or fall time motion blur,
not to mention inky blacks without any halation or blooming.
Right, and also the price.
Yeah, I know, right?
At only $20,000, it's really well-positioned
for a brand new mastering monitor.
Our quote for the BVM-HX3110 was almost $30,000,
and it's under a third of the size.
Of course, though, your choice might be dictated
by creative requirements rather than budgets.
If your film contains scenes like this, for example,
the ABL, or Auto Brightness Limiter,
that protects our QD OLED panel might preclude its use,
even if it doesn't operate as aggressively
as a consumer display.
However, if I was working on something like the Mario movie,
I'd be a fool to go dual-layer LCD at any price,
just like I'd be a fool if I didn't sign up
for a notification for our new precision screwdriver.
The Flanders is also, finally, a viable alternative
to the venerable BVM-X300, which is still sought after today
despite being discontinued.
That one used a true RGB-stripe OLED panel,
which avoids washing out color with a white sub-pixel,
but being older, it could only reach 1,000 nits
in a 10% window.
They're also not getting any younger,
so burn-in is becoming a concern with these displays.
There are other options that are still in production
with the BVM-E251 and 171, but those are 1080p
at 24 1⁄2 and 16 1⁄2 inches, respectively.
If anyone watching this video actually needs
any of this stuff, hey, we'll have links
in the description below.
For now, I wanna throw over to Brandon from the lab
to talk about our measured results
from the Flanders scientific model.
Due to our limited time with the XMP550,
we were only able to test its color accuracy
with HDR signals.
For our testing, we used the Delta E ITP metric
for our color error evaluation,
since it's designed for high luminance values
and a wide color gamut, two integral parts of HDR.
As we saw earlier, the S95B is skewing a bit red,
and on top of that, it oversaturates,
but it's still reasonably accurate, as is the G2.
However, the XMP550 is a clear winner,
hitting a Delta E ITP average of less than two
and a max of less than five.
This is by far the best color accuracy I've ever measured.
What's even more impressive is the lack of any major change
when adding luminance error to the equation.
See how the values are nearly identical?
The same can't be said for our other sets,
especially the G2.
That's because the XMP outputs light and color
basically perfectly to give us accurate HDR content.
Its PQ EOTF curve is tracking nearly identically
to the HDR standard.
Meanwhile, the G2 and S95B both have minor inaccuracies,
as well as a worse white balance by comparison.
And even with the XMP550 capped out at 1800 nits
with a D65 white,
it still handily beats our two other TVs.
Overall, a very impressive piece of technology
for the people who need it,
even if it does also kind of highlight
that there's still room for these displays to improve.
There's no such thing as a perfect solution right now.
Now you might've noticed,
we've been toying with HDR recently
and you're probably wondering,
hey, Linus, I'm watching this video in HDR right now.
Do you guys need one of those?
And depending who you ask,
production team's not here, that's good.
I don't think we need one.
No, I don't think we need one.
At least not until the check clears from our sponsor.
Squarespace, creating your own website
doesn't have to be difficult.
Luckily with Squarespace, it isn't.
Their all-in-one platform makes it easy
to get your website up and running quickly.
Designing with their Fluid Engine Site Builder is easy.
Start with a template and customize every detail imaginable
with drag and drop technology for desktop or mobile.
You can also use their asset library
to manage all your files from one central hub
and use them across the Squarespace platform.
With Squarespace's analytic insights,
you can see what's working well and what needs a little TLC.
And if you need help, Squarespace has got your back
with helpful guides and a 24-7 support team.
They don't sleep.
Head to squarespace.com forward slash LTT
and get 10% off today.
If you guys enjoyed this video,
why don't you go watch the one
where we checked out Alienware's monitors
that are also using Samsung QD OLED technology.
They look incredible.